------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HSPTVAPP ver0.9 REFERENCE MANUAL                    HSP : Hot Soup Processor  
HSP Extension Extension DLL Reference copyright 2005-2014 (c) onion software
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

・ Introduction

This DLL can be used with Hot Soup Processor ver3 or later.
Provides the ability to access HSPTVAPP network services.
With HSPTVAPP, you can easily add the net ranking function to the program created by HSP.
In addition, the function to update the data on the server allows it to be used for various purposes depending on the idea.
HSPTVAPP is available free of charge.

What you can do with HSPT PAPP

・ You can add net total high score ranking to the program created by HSP.
・ User name, comment, etc. can be added to the ranking.
・ It can be used in the same command and method as the ranking creation on the HSPTV browser.
-You can distribute the program distributed by the HSPTV browser in the executable format.
(You can share the ranking with the HSPTV browser)

HSPTVAPP is a system for managing rankings such as scores and sharing them online.
Information is updated immediately, but it is intended for asynchronous data sharing.
Not suitable for real-time updates.


・ Overview of how to use

Add the following line to the beginning of the script to test the HSPTVAPP compatible program
please.

		#include "hsptvapp.as"

Now you can use the operation check and ranking function of HSPTVAPP.
The instructions related to the ranking function are the instructions used in the script for the HSPTV browser.
It is compatible.

HSPTVAPP creates a program in the same process as HSPTV browser ranking support.
Testing is possible. First, after confirming with a local (not connected to the network) test,
Please connect to the network.


・ Acquisition of startup code

When you actually make a network connection and use HSPTVAPP, it is called a startup code.
You will need a string for identification. The startup code identifies you as a legitimate user.

The startup code can be obtained on the SoupSeed site.
(In the current beta version, it was linked to the works registered in the HSP Program Contest 2012.
You can only get the startup code. At the time of official service, new program registration and
We are planning to accept the issuance of startup code. )

SoupSeed site
		http://dev.onionsoft.net/seed/

The HSPTVAPP ID and startup code are registered in the SoupSeed user menu.
It is displayed by pressing the "Get ID for HSPT VAPP" button prepared for each program (work).
The startup code prepared for each individual program is added to the hsptv_start instruction immediately after the script starts.
By specifying it as a parameter, the net connection is enabled.

hsptv_start "Startup code"

Local if you do not use the hsptv_start instruction or if an empty string ("") is specified
It goes into the test mode (when not connected to the network). In this case, in the same folder as hsptvapp.dll
When the "hsptvdat.txt" file for saving the ranking is created and connected to the server
It works the same.
If the hsptv_start command enables the internet connection, then on the HSPTV! Server
Ranking data is referenced.
It also enables the PROXY (proxy) server that is set as user information.


・ About ranking function

Ranking information can be retained by the function of HSPTVAPP.
This provides information such as "score", "user name", and "comment" to the running software.
It is stored in a certain amount and can be used for various purposes such as recording high score information of games.

The information saved by the ranking function is as follows.

■ Score

A 32-bit integer value. Negative values cannot be handled.
The top 30 are retained in descending order of score value.

■ User name

The data that accompanies the score.
The information of the user name that registered the score is retained as a character string.
Username set in HSPTV browser options
The name will be used automatically. (Up to 20 English characters only)

■ Comment

The data that accompanies the score.
Comments (additional information) of the user who registered the score
Hold as a string.
This item is not only used for comments at the time of registration
Freely on the program side, such as adding information about software
It is possible to use it.
Comments can hold up to 255 characters.

Actually, the program is registered on the HSPTV server, and the HSPTV browser is registered from the net
When delivered, the score information is retained on the server and the user's information is displayed.
It functions as an internet ranking to record.

Testing to create HSPTV compatible program (script editor)
When running from), keep the score information in the current directory
Local file (hsptvdat.txt) is created and registered on the server
Simulates the same situation as at time.
(During the testing phase, no information is sent to the HSPTV server.)

In the program created by the user, "score", "user name", "comment"
You can freely get and update the information of.
Of course it can be used to retain high scores and retain other information
It can also be applied to do.
The server records up to 30 data in descending order of score value.
However, how many items should be displayed by the program, which items should be displayed,
It is also up to you how to determine the score value.

If you want to create a program that uses the ranking function, this document
Read and agree to the "About server transmission" section described in
Start on.


・ About user information

There are some user settings for using HSPTVAPP.

■ Name (up to 20 characters)

The name of the user used when registering the ranking.
You can set up to 20 characters using only English characters that do not include spaces.

■ User key (up to 32 characters)

It will be an encrypted string to identify the legitimate user.
This item is currently unused. Will be used in future expansions.

■ PROXY address (up to 63 characters)

Specify the address when using the PROXY (proxy) server for communication.
If you do not need it, leave it as an empty string.

■ PROXY port (up to 63 characters)

Specify the port number when using a PROXY (proxy) server for communication.
If you do not need it, leave it as an empty string.

These are the same items that the user sets in the HSPTV browser.
In HSPTVAPP, it is an independent program, so edit the user setting items.
You need to implement the functionality yourself.
In the sample program (hsptv_test.hsp), a simple user setting edit screen is displayed.
It is available, so please refer to it.

For user information, put "hsptvapp.ini" as a configuration file in the folder containing the dll.
It is possible to prepare and save it. The configuration file can be easily created by extension instructions.
It is possible to access.


・ Instruction reference

By using "hsptvapp.as", the following instructions can be newly used.
Become.

hsptv_start "code" HSPTVAPP communication start

"code": Startup code string

HSPTVAPP starts communicating with the server.
You need to specify a string called the startup code for "code".
Startup code is available only to program authors on the SoupSeed site
It's like a password issued.
If the startup code is recognized correctly, then from the HSPTV! Server
You will be able to get ranking information.
Specify an empty string ("") for the hsptv_start instruction, or use the hsptv_start instruction.
If not executed, it will be in local test mode and will communicate with the server.
The test is done on the machine running the script without.


hsptv_up p1, "comment", p2 Ranking data update

p1: Score value (32bit integer value)
"comment": Comment string (up to 256 bytes)
p2: Optional function value

Update the ranking data.
Reflects score and comment information.
If the score is negative, only the latest data will be acquired.
(If communication is enabled, this instruction causes communication with the server.
Assuming that it will take some time to complete this instruction
Create a program. )
For comments, the information of the character string to be set is up to 256 bytes (255 half-width characters).
It can be specified by the content.
If the optional function value is omitted or 0 is specified,
Update the data as normal ranking (highest score).
When 0x1000 (4096) is specified as the option value, it is specified by p1.
Clear the index score (set the score to 0).
When 0x2000 (8192) is specified as the option value,
The user name is not reflected and an empty string is always set.
Option values can be specified by adding multiple values.
(When clearing the contents of the data, option value 0x1000 and
Please use in combination with 0x2000. )


hsptv_getrank var1, var2, var3, rank Rank data acquisition

var1: Variable name to which score information is assigned
var2: Variable name to which user name information is assigned
var3: Variable name to which comment information is assigned
rank: Rank index (0-29)

Read the contents of the ranking data into variables.
This instruction sends the data updated by the hsptv_up instruction.
It is read into a variable.
The content to be read is the last time the hsptv_up instruction was executed.
It will be the information at the time.
As for the rank value, 0 is the 1st place and 29 is the 30th place.
var1 is initialized as a numeric type, and var2 and var3 are initialized as a string type.
With this instruction, no communication occurs, so the information cannot be read.
It will be done immediately.


hsptv_getini var, id Get user information

var: Variable name to which user information is assigned
id: User information ID

Gets the HSPTVAPP user information and assigns it to a variable.
Specify the user information ID obtained by id.

ID: Contents
			------------------------
0: Name
1: User key
2: PROXY address
3: PROXY port

If a non-existent information ID is specified, it exits without assigning anything.


hsptv_setini "string", id user information setting

"string": String to set
id: User information ID

Set the HSPTVAPP user information.
Specify the user information ID obtained by id.

ID: Contents
			------------------------
0: Name
1: User key
2: PROXY address
3: PROXY port

If a non-existent information ID is specified, it will exit without doing anything.


hsptv_saveini Save user information

Save the user information data as a file.
User information is stored as a configuration file in the folder containing the dll.
Create and save "hsptvapp.ini".
The contents of this configuration file are automatically loaded at startup.


・ About server transmission

When actually delivered from the server, for registration and acquisition of ranking information
Network communication is performed.
Before sending the information for the first time, "Reflect the current information on the HSPTV server.
Is that okay? Is displayed and only when "Yes" is selected
The transmission will be made.
(At the test stage, "Can I reflect the above information?"
A dialog is displayed. )

Communication with the server may take some time depending on the network load and environment.
There is. Create a program that assumes that it will take some time
Put it down please. Programs that update data in real time
Cannot be created. Also, to reduce the load on the server, once every 5 seconds
Please try not to make it more frequent than access.
Network bandwidth for registering programs that place more server load than necessary
In order to secure it, we may be forced to suspend it temporarily, so
Please note that.

Communication with the server is via the http protocol.
The PROXY server set for communication is used.

Ranking information stored on the HSPTV server side is basically distributed.
It is managed independently for each software, and from other than the corresponding software
It will not be accessed.
The HSPTV server retains and manages ranking information as much as possible
We will do it, but it is just a service of the current situation, and about the contents
We do not guarantee it.
All information is unavoidably destroyed due to an accident or update.
Please note that there is a possibility.


・ About sample script

Sample script is in the sample directory hsptvapp as "hsptv_test.hsp"
It is recorded.
This script can display and update the information of the top 10 people.
It is also possible to set and save user information.


・ About receivable character strings

Communication with the HSPTV ranking server is done after encoding the string into another code
It will be done. Most strings, including Japanese, can be sent,
Garbled characters may occur in some double-byte characters and special characters.
Also, since the "&" symbol is converted to another character at the transmission stage,
Normal results cannot be expected. When converting binary data to a character string, etc.
Be especially careful.


・ Future version upgrade schedule

HSPTVAPP aims to provide an integrated service for user data over the network.
I would like to add various functions.
We are considering the following functions as a future version upgrade plan.

■ Increase in the number of rankings held
(Aiming to maintain more rankings while considering the system load etc.)
■ Retention of user data
(Prepare a small data storage area for each user and build a cloud system)
■ Server item management
(Provides a function that allows the server to generate and manage items that can be held by the user)


Change log

	2013/03/08 ver0.9

First version.


important point

When creating a program with HSPTVAPP, enter the HSPTVAPP ID and startup code provided by the server.
Please manage it carefully and keep it under strict control to prevent unauthorized use.
If the startup code is leaked to the outside, other users can illegally access the ranking
It will be.
If it is described in the format of "hsptv_start" startup code "" in the script, it will be converted to an executable file at the time of conversion.
Since it is encrypted, there is usually no problem. Put the startup code string in an external file, registry, etc.
Be careful not to save it.
HSPTVAPP operates the service in cooperation with the HSPTV! Server, which is the HSP official site.
HSPTV! Administrators are forced to use HSPTV! Administrators in the event of annoying acts, false applications, or inappropriate behavior by users.
Please note that at our discretion, we may suspend your HSPTVAPP ID account and deprive you of your SoupSeed user rights.
In addition, the administrator of HSPTV! May suspend or change the operation of the system without prior notice to the user for various maintenance.
There is. HSPTVAPP is a non-warranty service. The administrator of HSPTV! Is responsible for any loss, intentional or negligent, caused by HSPTVAPP.
We cannot take any responsibility for any damages. Please operate at the responsibility of the user.
HSPTV! And SoupSeed administrators will not disclose personal information to third parties without prior permission.
(Except when there is a legal problem and there is a request from a government agency and the administrator deems it necessary)

HSPTVAPP.DLL is a plug-in file that is used at the same time as HSP3.
Please use ver3.0 or above as the HSP to use. For HSP ver2.61 and earlier
Please note that it is not supported.
Even if you create an EXE file, put HSPTVAPP.DLL in the same directory as the EXE file.
It will not work unless it is placed in. Also, you cannot add DLLs to the packfile.


・ Copyright and license

HSPTVAPP services and plug-ins are copyrighted works of onion software.
onion software is responsible for any damage caused by this program.
We do not guarantee. Use at your own risk.

HSPTVAPP plug-ins and archives can be freely reorganized and redistributed under the BSD license.
You can do it.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                HSP users manual / end of file 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
