------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HSPTV API ver3.5 REFERENCE MANUAL                   HSP : Hot Soup Processor  
HSP Extension Module Reference copyright 2016 (c) onion software
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

・ Introduction

Here, it is supported by Hot Soup Processor ver3.3 or later,
Explanation about program creation compatible with HSPTV browser and attached
I will explain about the module.
By using the HSPTV API, a program that runs on HSPTV
Features such as testing and ranking creation are available.


・ Overview of how to use

Add the following line to the beginning of the script to test the HSPTV compatible program
please.

		#include "hsptv.as"

Now you can use the operation check and ranking function on HSPTV.
Become.
Also, when you execute the script, the HSPTV browser will start and operate.


・ About standard image

A standard image is available for use with the HSPTV browser.
The standard image is stored as hsptv_img.bmp in the hsptv folder.
Please use it as an image material that can be used in common in all environments.
You can load the image with the following script.

; For HSPTV browser ・ Load standard image
		celload dir_tv+"hsptv_img.bmp",1

In the above example, the standard image (hsptv_img.bmp) is loaded into image buffer 1. The hsptv_img.bmp file should not be modified, deleted or modified by the user.
For the contents of the image, please check the image file directly.
16x16, 32x32, 64x64 dot material that can be used for general purposes as a 512x512 image
It is packed. It can be used for various purposes and purposes depending on the idea.


・ About ranking function

HSPTV compatible programs can use the function to retain ranking information.
I can do it. This is the "score" and "user name" for the running software.
It stores a certain amount of information such as "comments" and has a high score for the game.
It can be used for various purposes such as recording information.

The information saved by the ranking function is as follows.

■ Score

A 32-bit integer value. Negative values cannot be handled.
The top 30 are retained in descending order of score value.

■ User name

The data that accompanies the score.
The information of the user name that registered the score is retained as a character string.
Username set in HSPTV browser options
The name will be used automatically. (Up to 20 English characters only)

■ Comment

The data that accompanies the score.
Comments (additional information) of the user who registered the score
Hold as a string.
This item is not only used for comments at the time of registration
Freely on the program side, such as adding information about software
It is possible to use it.
Comments can hold up to 255 characters.

Actually, the program is registered on the HSPTV server, and the HSPTV browser is registered from the net
When delivered, the score information is retained on the server and the user's information is displayed.
It functions as an internet ranking to record.

Testing to create HSPTV compatible program (script editor)
When running from), keep the score information in the current directory
Local file (hsptvdat.txt) is created and registered on the server
Simulates the same situation as at time.
(During the testing phase, no information is sent to the HSPTV server.)

In the program created by the user, "score", "user name", "comment"
You can freely get and update the information of.
Of course it can be used to retain high scores and retain other information
It can also be applied to do.
The server records up to 30 data in descending order of score value.
However, how many items should be displayed by the program, which items should be displayed,
It is also up to you how to determine the score value.

If you want to create a program that uses the ranking function, this document
Read and agree to the "About server transmission" section described in
Start on.


・ About additional instructions

By using "hsptv.as", the following instructions can be newly used.
Become.

hsptv_up p1, "comment", p2 HSPTV data update

p1: Score value (32bit integer value)
"comment": Comment string (up to 256 bytes)
p2: Optional function value

Update HSPTV data.
Reflects score and comment information.
If the score is negative, only the latest data will be acquired.
(For HSPTV distribution programs, this command causes the server
Communication with will occur. By the end of this instruction, to some extent
Create the program assuming that it will take time. )
For comments, the information of the character string to be set is up to 256 bytes (255 half-width characters).
It can be specified by the content.
If the optional function value is omitted or 0 is specified,
Update the data as normal ranking (highest score).
When 0x1000 (4096) is specified as the option value, it is specified by p1.
Clear the index score (set the score to 0).
When 0x2000 (8192) is specified as the option value,
The user name is not reflected and an empty string is always set.
Option values can be specified by adding multiple values.
(When clearing the contents of the data, option value 0x1000 and
Please use in combination with 0x2000. )


hsptv_getrank var1, var2, var3, rank HSPTV data acquisition

var1: Variable name to which score information is assigned
var2: Variable name to which user name information is assigned
var3: Variable name to which comment information is assigned
rank: Rank index (0-29)

Read the contents of HSPTV data into a variable.
This instruction sends the data updated by the hsptv_up instruction.
It is read into a variable.
The content to be read is the last time the hsptv_up instruction was executed.
It will be the information at the time.
As for the rank value, 0 is the 1st place and 29 is the 30th place.
var1 is initialized as a numeric type, and var2 and var3 are initialized as a string type.
With this instruction, no communication occurs, so the information cannot be read.
It will be done immediately.


・ About server transmission

When actually delivered from the server, for registration and acquisition of ranking information
Network communication is performed.
Before sending the information for the first time, "Reflect the current information on the HSPTV server.
Is that okay? Is displayed and only when "Yes" is selected
The transmission will be made.
(At the test stage, "Can I reflect the above information?"
A dialog is displayed. )

Communication with the server may take some time depending on the network load and environment.
There is. Create a program that assumes that it will take some time
Put it down please. Programs that update data in real time
Cannot be created. Also, to reduce the load on the server, once every 5 seconds
Please try not to make it more frequent than access.
Network bandwidth for registering programs that place more server load than necessary
In order to secure it, we may be forced to suspend it temporarily, so
Please note that.

Communication with the server is via the http protocol.
The settings of the HSPTV browser are used as they are for the settings of the PROXY server, etc.

Ranking information stored on the HSPTV server side is basically distributed.
It is managed independently for each software, and from other than the corresponding software
It will not be accessed.
The HSPTV server retains and manages ranking information as much as possible
We will do it, but it is just a service of the current situation, and about the contents
We do not guarantee it.
All information is unavoidably destroyed due to an accident or update.
Please note that there is a possibility.


・ About sample script

The following script is written as "hsptv_test.hsp" in the sample directory misc
It is recorded.
This script can display and update the information of the top 10 people.

	#include "hsptv.as"

		score=1000
		sdim comm,64
mes "HSPTV data update registration test"
hsptv_up -1, ""; Update the information first
gosub * update; Display ranking information

		pos 500,32:objsize 120,24
mes "score"
		input score
mes "comment"
		input comm
button "update", * send
button "end", * ok
		stop

	*send
		hsptv_up score, comm
		gosub *update
		stop
	*ok
		end

	*update
		color 255,255,255
boxf 0,32,500,480; clear background
		color 0,0,0
		pos 0,32
repeat 10; Show only top 10
hsptv_getrank rscore, ruser, rcomm, cnt; Get information
		rank=cnt+1
		mes "#"+rank+":"+rscore+"("+ruser+") "
mes "Comment:" + rcomm
		loop
		return

In addition, a sample for using standard images, "hsptv_test2.hsp"
"Hsptv_test3.hsp" is also included.


・ About receivable character strings

Communication with the HSPTV server is done after encoding the string into another code
It will be done. Most strings, including Japanese, can be sent,
Garbled characters may occur in some double-byte characters and special characters.
Also, since the "&" symbol is converted to another character at the transmission stage,
Normal results cannot be expected. When converting binary data to a character string, etc.
Be especially careful.


揃Change log

	2011/7/26  ver3.3RC1

Added description of standard image.

	2007/7/13  ver3.2β4

Expanded the comment string of hsptv_up to a maximum of 256 bytes.

	2007/7/28  ver3.1

Released as the official version.

	2007/7/20  ver3.1RC1

First version.


揃important point

hsptv.as is just for testing programs that run on the HSPTV browser
This is a file to use. Executable file using hsptv.as
It cannot be created.

The HSPTV compatible program restricts the following functions for security reasons.

-File deletion function (delete command)
-Mouse cursor display control (cursor erase with mouse -1)
-Access to folders used by the system such as windows

Please do not use these functions in HSPTV compatible programs.
If used, it will be invalid or an error will occur.

The program actually delivered on the HSPTV browser is sent to the HSPTV server.
If you do not register, it will not reach other users.
Registration to the HSPTV server can be done on the HSPTV site such as the HSP Program Contest.
It is held irregularly. See the HSPTV site for more information.


・ Copyright and license


The HSPTV and hsptv modules are copyrighted works of onion software.
onion software is responsible for any damage caused by this program.
We do not guarantee. Use at your own risk.

The hsptv module (hsptv.as) can be freely reorganized and redistributed under the BSD license.
You can do it.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                HSP users manual / end of file 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
